README.md, before:

# Description
This is a ROS2 node for controlling DepthAI camera (OAK-D model).

# Build instructions
```
$ mkdir build && cd $_
$ cmake .. -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=[OFF|ON] -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=[Release|Debug]
$ cmake --build . --parallel
```
Use static libraries.

# Packaging instructions
Generate deb files:
```
$ cd fog_sw/packaging
$ ./package.sh
```
Debian packages are generated into fog_sw/packaging folder

# How to
## start application for development
```
$ cd build
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ export DRONE_DEVICE_ID=tredrone
$ ./depthai_ctrl --ros-args --remap __ns:=/${DRONE_DEVICE_ID}
```
NOTE: the DRONE_DEVICE_ID environment variable does not need to be set if it is already available in the environment.

## start streaming video for development
Execute command in another shell session. <br>
```
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ ros2 topic pub -t 1 /${DRONE_DEVICE_ID}/videostreamcmd std_msgs/msg/String "data: '{ \"Command\": \"start\" }'"
```
The videonode is listening to the subscriber "/${DRONE_DEVICE_ID}/videostreamcmd".

## list node parameters
Execute command in another shell session or a session where ROS2 environment is available. <br>
```
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ ros2 param list
```

## start appication setting parameters
```
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ export DRONE_DEVICE_ID=tredrone
$ ./depthai_ctrl --ros-args --remap __ns:=/${DRONE_DEVICE_ID} -p start_stream_on_boot:=true -p encoding:=H265
```
The command above will start the ROS2 node depthai_ctrl and right after boot it will start streaming H265 encoded video.

## show streamed video with GStreamer
```
$ gst-launch-1.0 udpsrc port=5600 \
! application/x-rtp,media=video,clock-rate=90000,encoding-name=H264,payload=96 \
! rtph264depay ! queue \
! avdec_h264 ! queue \
! videoconvert \
! autovideosink
```

## store streamed video with GStreamer
```
$ gst-launch-1.0 -e udpsrc port=5600 \
! application/x-rtp,media=video,clock-rate=90000,encoding-name=H264,payload=96 \
! rtph264depay ! queue \
! h264parse ! queue \
! mp4mux \
! filesink location=video_output.mp4
```

# TODO list
* Refactor code: split code into several files.
* Add method to restart streaming.
* Add monitoring information of the OAK-D to the ROS2 node.
* Add manual focus settings to ROS2 node.

# Known issues
## SPDLOG dependency
The version of depthai-core C++ API has been modified to use libspdlog v1.5.0. DepthAI library uses a newer version of libspdlog (v1.8.1) which is not compatible with the one that ROS2 uses (v1.5.0).<br>
This is the reason why compilation is successful but there is a segmentation fault when ROS2 is initialized and tries to use libspdlog which is linked against 1.8.1 version of the library. <br>
The solution is to create a branch of depthai-core which is compatible with v1.5.0 of spdlog.

Commit message:

timestamp fixed, changed to getTimestampDevice. Some recovery actions fixed
Code cleanup, new comments regarding timestamp

multi_node name changed to depthai_ctrl to match existing systemd launch command

fix compile warnings, remove deprecated functions

remove address from params

Add params to share folder with cmake

Update README

Timestamp fixed, changed to getTimestampDevice. Some recovery actions fixed

README.md, after:

# Description
This is a ROS2 node for controlling DepthAI camera (OAK-D model).

# Build instructions
```
$ mkdir build && cd $_
$ cmake .. -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=[OFF|ON] -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=[Release|Debug]
$ cmake --build . --parallel
```
Use static libraries.

# Packaging instructions
Generate deb files:
```
$ cd fog_sw/packaging
$ ./package.sh
```
Debian packages are generated into fog_sw/packaging folder

# How to
## start application for development
```
$ cd build
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ export DRONE_DEVICE_ID=tredrone
$ ./depthai_ctrl --ros-args --remap __ns:=/${DRONE_DEVICE_ID}
```
NOTE: the DRONE_DEVICE_ID environment variable does not need to be set if it is already available in the environment.

## start streaming video for development
The node starts automatically during the boot. If the flag is set to false, start command needs to be given to create pipeline and start RTSP stream. Execute command in another shell session. <br>
```
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ ros2 topic pub -t 1 /${DRONE_DEVICE_ID}/videostreamcmd std_msgs/msg/String "data: '{ \"Command\": \"start\" }'"
```
The videonode is listening to the subscriber "/${DRONE_DEVICE_ID}/videostreamcmd".

## list node parameters
Execute command in another shell session or a session where ROS2 environment is available. <br>
```
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ ros2 param list
```

## start appication setting parameters
```
$ source /opt/ros/foxy/setup.bash
$ export DRONE_DEVICE_ID=tredrone
$ ./depthai_ctrl --ros-args --remap __ns:=/${DRONE_DEVICE_ID} -p start_stream_on_boot:=true -p encoding:=H265
```
The command above will start the ROS2 node depthai_ctrl and right after boot it will start streaming H265 encoded video. 

### **Disclaimer: The H265 stream is not supported by Firefox or Chrome. Only works with IE or Edge browser due to patent problems.** 

## show streamed video with GStreamer
```
$ gst-launch-1.0 udpsrc port=5600 \
! application/x-rtp,media=video,clock-rate=90000,encoding-name=H264,payload=96 \
! rtph264depay ! queue \
! avdec_h264 ! queue \
! videoconvert \
! autovideosink
```

## store streamed video with GStreamer
```
$ gst-launch-1.0 -e udpsrc port=5600 \
! application/x-rtp,media=video,clock-rate=90000,encoding-name=H264,payload=96 \
! rtph264depay ! queue \
! h264parse ! queue \
! mp4mux \
! filesink location=video_output.mp4
```

# TODO list
* Add monitoring information of the OAK-D to the ROS2 node.
* Add manual focus settings to ROS2 node.
* Add URDF based static transform publisher for transforms between camera frames.
* Test and fix timestamping of the color and stereo cameras.(Info below)

# Known issues
## SPDLOG dependency
The version of depthai-core C++ API has been modified to use libspdlog v1.5.0. DepthAI library uses a newer version of libspdlog (v1.8.1) which is not compatible with the one that ROS2 uses (v1.5.0).<br>
This is the reason why compilation is successful but there is a segmentation fault when ROS2 is initialized and tries to use libspdlog which is linked against 1.8.1 version of the library. <br>
The solution is to create a branch of depthai-core which is compatible with v1.5.0 of spdlog.

## Timestamp of DepthAI camera
The ImgFrame of DepthAI callbacks(camera and encoded video output) includes two methods to get the timestamp of the capture time. `getTimestamp()` and `getTimestampDevice()`. 

The `getTimestamp()` is uses a host synced monotonic time source to provide capture timestamp. However, when the host and OAKD boots up at the same time, this monotonic clock demonstrates a behavior such as the timestamps jump back and forth around ~5-10 seconds even though the sequence number correctly increasing. This might be caused by the time sync happens after the pipeline starts. 

On the other hand, `getTimestampDevice()` gives the OAKD device timestamp directly, which does not show the same behavior. At the moment, the video encoder uses this method since it already uses the first arrived message's timestamp to calculate relative time point of the stream. Even though it is not a problem for the video stream, this method cannot be used for color and stereo camera outputs. The clock difference between host and camera will create an issue when these images are used for real-time operations such as SLAM or object tracking. This needs to be investigated further more. 

One possible fix for this is to delay start of the node by some 20-30 seconds. Since the time sync will already be done by that time, the messages can have correct monotonic timestamp. Not tested yet.
